DEFINITIONS
This section provides the meaning of special terms used throughout this Contract. Most of these terms are capitalized throughout this Contract to help you easily recognize them. Provision titles, section titles and terms used on the Policy Schedule are also capitalized for your convenience.
We, Our, Us or the Company
Allianz Life Insurance Company of North America (whether these terms are capitalized or not).
You, Your or Yourself
The person who is insured under this Contract, as shown on the Policy Schedule, and is solely entitled to exercise all rights of this Contract (whether these terms are capitalized or not).
Activities of Daily Living, See the Eligibility for the Payment of Benefits section.
ADLs
Adult Day Health Care
A program of services provided through an Adult Day Health Care center that includes:
﻿﻿health-related services;
﻿﻿Maintenance or Personal Care Services; and
recreational and social services provided during the day in a community group setting.
The purpose of such a program is to support frail, impaired, elderly, or other disabled adults who are not capable of full-time independent living, but do not require 24-hour institutional care and can benefit from care in a group setting outside the Home.
Assisted Living Facility
A facility licensed or certified with the appropriate state agency to provide the care described below, or, if not licensed or certified, a facility which is engaged primarily in providing ongoing care and related services in one location, and which meets all of the following criteria:
﻿﻿has at least one trained staff member on duty 24 hours per day; provides continuous room and board;
provides Maintenance or Personal Care Services required by residents due to their inability to perform the Activities of Daily Living or due to a Severe Cognitive Impairment;
﻿﻿has formal arrangements for the services of a Physician or RN in case of an emergency; and
﻿﻿has formal procedures in place to manage all medical emergencies and medical needs, including the handling and dispensing of prescription and non-prescription drugs and medical treatments.
Assisted Living Facilities do not include Hospitals or facilities otherwise excluded in this Contract.
Beneficiary
The person or persons or entity named on the application, if any, unless later changed in writing; or the person or persons or entity designated as such in a written notice to us. The Beneficiary, or your estate if no Beneficiary has been designated, will receive any unassigned benefit payments, unearned premium, or any Rider benefits due upon your death.
Benefit Period
The Benefit Period is shown on the Policy Schedu

————


DEFINITIONS
Cancel, Cancelled, or
Cancellation
The Termination of this Contract, per your written request. Cancellation is effective upon receipt of such request or on such later date specified in the request.
Chronically III, Chronic
IlIness
See the Eligibility for the Payment of Benefits section.
Class
A population segment with similar characteristics such as issue age, underwriting and rating classification, elected benefit options, or Elimination Period.
Contract
This policy, the attached copy of the application, any attached Endorsements, and any attached Riders are the Contract.
Effective Date
The date when coverage starts under this Contract. It is shown on the Policy Schedule.
This date determines Policy Anniversaries and Policy Years.
Elimination Period
The period of time that must be satisfied before we will pay you benefits and is the number of days in which you:
• must be Chronically III;
• are receiving care in either a Nursing Facility or Assisted Living Facility, or are receiving Home and Community Care; and
• are not receiving Benefit Payments under this Contract.
The Elimination Period is shown on the Policy Schedule. Each day of covered services under this Contract counts toward the Elimination Period. The Elimination Period must only be satisfied once in your lifetime.
Endorsement
An attachment to this policy that may provide an additional benefit or amend this Contract.
Facility Care
Care provided to you in a Nursing Facility or an Assisted Living Facility.
Facility Care Daily
Benefit
The dollar amount elected by you and shown on the Policy Schedule.
Home
Any place where you reside. A Home is not a Nursing Facility, Assisted Living Facility, Alzheimer's facility, hospice facility, or Hospital.
Home and Community
Care
A program of services provided to you through Adult Day Health Care, Home Health Care, or Hospice Care.
Home and Community
Care Daily Benefit
The dollar amount elected by you and shown on the Policy Schedule.
Home Health Aide
A person, other than an RN or nurse, who provides Maintenance or Personal Care Services under the supervision of a Home Health Care Agency. A Home Health Aide must be duly licensed or certified under state law, if any; and acting within the scope of his or her license or certification at the time the treatment or service is performed.
——-

Licensed Social Worker
Loss of Functional
Capacity
Maintenance or Personal
Care Services
Maximum Lifetime
Benefit
Medicare
Nursing Facility
Physician
DEFINITIONS
A person who is licensed by the state, if required, and acting within the scope of his or her
Chronically I!!.
professional responsibilities when providing an assessment indicating that you are
We will not recognize you or an Immediate Family Member as a Licensed Social Worker for claims that you make to us under this Contract.
The inability to perform the prescribed ALs without the Substantial Assistance of another person.
Services provided primarily to give needed assistance to you as a result of your being Chronically IlI(including protection of your health and safety due to a Severe Cognitive Impairment).
The total amount we will pay in your lifetime for all benefits (other than the Waiver of Premium Benefit) provided by this Contract. The Maximum Lifetime Benefit is shown on the Policy Schedule. The Maximum Lifetime Benefit is calculated as the Facility Care Daily Benefit times the Benefit Period (in years) times 365.
The program under the Health Insurance for the Aged Act, Title XVIII of the Social Security Amendments of 1965 and any later amendments or substitutes thereof.
A facility or institution, either separate or a distinct part of another health care facility, other than a Hospital, which is licensed or certified by the appropriate state agency to provide the following such care as described:
﻿﻿provides an organized, 24-hour program of services consistent with the needs of its residents under the supervision of a Physician;
﻿﻿provides medical and nursing services, as needed, under the supervision of a Physician or RN; and
﻿﻿maintains a daily medical record on each patient.
Nursing Facility does not include:
﻿﻿convalescent homes, board and rest homes, homes for aged, residential care facilities, domiciliary and retired care facilities, or training centers; or
﻿﻿government or veterans' facilities or any other facility where the patient is not required to pay.
A person who:
﻿﻿is licensed to practice medicine and surgery and prescribe and administer drugs;
﻿﻿is legally qualified as a medical practitioner and required to be recognized, under this Contract for insurance purposes, according to applicable state insurance laws; or
﻿﻿meets the requirements of section 1861(r)(1) of the Social Security Act.
We will consider a person to be a Physician only when the person is performing tasks that are within the limits of the person's medical license, and such tasks are appropriate to the care of your Chronic Illness. We will not recognize you or an Immediate Family Member as a Physician for claims that you make to us under this Contract.

——-

Substantial Supervision
Termination, Terminate,
Terminates, or Terminated
DEFINITIONS
Requiring continuall supervision by another person to protect you or others from threats to health or safety as a result of a Severe Cognitive Impairment. Such supervision may include cueing by verball prompting, gestures, or other similar demonstrations.
The date on which coverage under this Contract ends. Refer to the Termination provision under the Policy Administration section.

